documentation/docs/globals/fetch.mdx, before:

---
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---
# fetch()

The global **`fetch()`** method starts the process of fetching a
resource from the network, returning a promise which is fulfilled once the response is
available.

The promise resolves to the `Response` object
representing the response to your request.

A `fetch()` promise only rejects when a
network error is encountered (which is usually when there's a permissions issue or
similar). A `fetch()` promise _does
not_ reject on HTTP errors (`404`, etc.). Instead, a
`then()` handler must check the `Response.ok` and/or
`Response.status` properties.

> **Note:** The `fetch()` method's parameters are identical to
> those of the `Request()` constructor.

## Syntax

```js
fetch(resource)
fetch(resource, options)
```

### Parameters

- `resource`

  - : This defines the resource that you wish to fetch. This can either be:

    - A string or any other object with a "toString" method.
    - A `Request` object.

- `options` _**optional**_

  - : An object containing any custom settings that you want to apply to the request. The
    possible options are:

    - `method`
      - : The request method, e.g., `GET`, `POST`.
    - `headers`
      - : Any headers you want to add to your request, contained within a
        `Headers` object or an object literal with `String`
        values.
    - `body`
      - : Any body that you want to add to your request: this can be an `ArrayBuffer`, a `TypedArray`, a `DataView`, a `URLSearchParams`, string object or literal, or a `ReadableStream` object.
    - `backend` _**Fastly-specific**_
      - *Fastly-specific*
    - `cacheOverride` _**Fastly-specific**_
    - `cacheKey` _**Fastly-specific**_

### Return value

A `Promise` that resolves to a `Response` object.

Commit message:

feat: add ability to automatically decompress gzip responses returned from `fetch`
This patch add a new `fastly` options object to the RequestInit parameter on `fetch` and the `Request` constructor.
The new `fastly` options object has one field, `decompress`, if this field is falsey, then no automatic decompression is applied on the response. If this field is truthy, then automatic decompression is applied on the response.

This patch brings in support for automatically decompressing GZIP and not other compression formats.

I've added this under a field named `fastly` as that can be our extension point for other Fastly specific request/response features.

Previously we've added Fastly specific features as a root property on the RequestInit object, such as `backend`, `cacheOverride`, and `cacheKey`. In future patches we could move those to exist under `fastly` instead of the root.

documentation/docs/globals/fetch.mdx, after:

---
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---
# fetch()

The global **`fetch()`** method starts the process of fetching a
resource from the network, returning a promise which is fulfilled once the response is
available.

The promise resolves to the `Response` object
representing the response to your request.

A `fetch()` promise only rejects when a
network error is encountered (which is usually when there's a permissions issue or
similar). A `fetch()` promise _does
not_ reject on HTTP errors (`404`, etc.). Instead, a
`then()` handler must check the `Response.ok` and/or
`Response.status` properties.

> **Note:** The `fetch()` method's parameters are identical to
> those of the `Request()` constructor.

## Syntax

```js
fetch(resource)
fetch(resource, options)
```

### Parameters

- `resource`

  - : This defines the resource that you wish to fetch. This can either be:

    - A string or any other object with a "toString" method.
    - A `Request` object.

- `options` _**optional**_

  - : An object containing any custom settings that you want to apply to the request. The
    possible options are:

    - `method`
      - : The request method, e.g., `GET`, `POST`.
    - `headers`
      - : Any headers you want to add to your request, contained within a
        `Headers` object or an object literal with `String`
        values.
    - `body`
      - : Any body that you want to add to your request: this can be an `ArrayBuffer`, a `TypedArray`, a `DataView`, a `URLSearchParams`, string object or literal, or a `ReadableStream` object.
    - `backend` _**Fastly-specific**_
      - *Fastly-specific*
    - `cacheOverride` _**Fastly-specific**_
    - `cacheKey` _**Fastly-specific**_
    - `fastly` _**Fastly-specific**_
      - `decompress`_: boolean_ _**optional**_
        - Whether to automatically decompress the Response or not.

### Return value

A `Promise` that resolves to a `Response` object.
